- What happens inside of us, happens outside of us, if the sea is acidic, that means we are becoming acidic. The world manifests our state, thats why knowing our state is important
	- Sheikh Hamza Yusuf
- Ears are an evolutionary innovation that allows us to register sound waves in the air around us and process them as information—without ears, most sound waves would be imperceptible to a human with only the loudest sounds registering as a felt vibration on our skin. Ears give us a magical ability to sense even slight sound waves in a way so nuanced, it can usually tell us exactly where the sound is coming from and what the meaning of it is. And it enables us to talk. The most important kind of human communication happens when our brains send information to other brains through complex patterns of _air pressure waves_. Have you ever stopped and thought about how incredible that is?
- The next time you’re talking to someone, I want you to stop and think about what’s happening. Your brain has a thought. It translates that thought into a pattern of pressure waves. Then your lungs send air out of your body, but as you do that, you vibrate your vocal chords in _just_ the right way and you move your mouth and tongue into _just_ the right shapes that by the time the air leaves you, it’s embedded with a pattern of high- and low-pressure areas. The code in that air then spreads out to all the air in the vicinity, a little bit of which ends up in your friend’s ear, where it passes by their eardrum. When it does, it vibrates their eardrum in such a way as to pass on not only the code, but exactly where in the room it came from and the particular tone of voice it came with. The eardrum’s vibrations are transmitted through three tiny bones and into a little sac of fluid, which then transmits the information into electrical impulses and sends them up the auditory nerve and into the brain, where the information is decoded. And all of that happens in an eighth of a second, without any effort from either of you. Talking is a _miracle_.
- The reason you can _feel_ low sounds, like low bass notes in music, is that the wavelength is so long that it actually takes 1/20th of a second for a full wave to pass your body (hence 20 Hz)
- If, hypothetically, there _were_ air filling the universe, then suddenly things would get _very_ loud. Forget the terrifying concept of the sound of a supernova—just the dumb sun sitting there hanging out would ring in at an astounding 290 dB. According to [one solar physicist](https://www.reddit.com/r/askscience/comments/33xuxu/if_sound_could_travel_through_space_how_loud/), we’d hear that on _Earth_ as a 100 dB sound—_the volume of a motorcycle_—all the time, every day, everywhere. Be happy that sound doesn’t travel in a vacuum.
	- Wait but why